docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: LandingPage
title: IntelliCode
description: Learn how to use the IntelliCode extension for Visual Studio.
ms.date: 10/31/2018
ms.prod: visual-studio-family
ms.technology: intellicode
ms.topic: landing-page
ms.author: gewarren
author: gewarren
manager: douge
---
# Visual Studio IntelliCode

Visual Studio IntelliCode is a new tool that enhances software development using artificial intelligence. IntelliCode helps developers and teams code with confidence, focus code reviews, and find issues faster. IntelliCode extensions are available for [C# in Visual Studio](intellicode-visual-studio.md), and [Python in Visual Studio Code](intellicode-visual-studio-code.md).

<br />

<ul class="panelContent cardsFTitle">
    <li>
        <a href="faq.md">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img height="60" width="60" src="https://docs.microsoft.com/media/common/i_support.svg" alt="Question mark graphic">
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Get answers to your IntelliCode questions in the FAQ</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="intellicode-visual-studio.md">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img height="60" width="60" src="https://docs.microsoft.com/media/logos/logo_vs-ide.svg" alt="Visual Studio logo">
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Get answers to your IntelliCode for Visual Studio questions</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="intellicode-visual-studio-code.md">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img height="60" width="60" src="https://docs.microsoft.com/media/logos/logo_vs-code.svg" alt="Visual Studio Code logo">
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Get answers to your IntelliCode for Visual Studio Code questions</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
</ul>

Commit message:

Added new languages to the index
Adding C++, XAML, Java and TS/JS  to this doc

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: LandingPage
title: IntelliCode
description: Learn how to use the IntelliCode extension for Visual Studio.
ms.date: 10/31/2018
ms.prod: visual-studio-family
ms.technology: intellicode
ms.topic: landing-page
ms.author: gewarren
author: gewarren
manager: douge
---
# Visual Studio IntelliCode

Visual Studio IntelliCode is a new tool that enhances software development using artificial intelligence. IntelliCode helps developers and teams code with confidence, focus code reviews, and find issues faster. IntelliCode extensions are available for [C++, C# and XAML in Visual Studio](intellicode-visual-studio.md), and [Java, TypeScript/JavaScript and Python in Visual Studio Code](intellicode-visual-studio-code.md).

<br />

<ul class="panelContent cardsFTitle">
    <li>
        <a href="faq.md">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img height="60" width="60" src="https://docs.microsoft.com/media/common/i_support.svg" alt="Question mark graphic">
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Get answers to your IntelliCode questions in the FAQ</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="intellicode-visual-studio.md">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img height="60" width="60" src="https://docs.microsoft.com/media/logos/logo_vs-ide.svg" alt="Visual Studio logo">
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Get answers to your IntelliCode for Visual Studio questions</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="intellicode-visual-studio-code.md">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img height="60" width="60" src="https://docs.microsoft.com/media/logos/logo_vs-code.svg" alt="Visual Studio Code logo">
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Get answers to your IntelliCode for Visual Studio Code questions</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
</ul>
