docs/intellicode-visual-studio-code-completions.md, before:

---
title: VS Code Completions Preview
description: Read an overview of IntelliCode for Visual Studio Code. The IntelliCode extension provides AI-assisted IntelliSense for Python, Java, TypeScript, and JavaScript.
ms.custom: SEO-VS-2020
ms.date: 04/19/2022
ms.prod: visual-studio-family
ms.technology: intellicode
ms.topic: conceptual
author: aayim
ms.author: aayim
manager: andster
---

# IntelliCode Completions Preview for Visual Studio Code

The [IntelliCode Completions extension for Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=VisualStudioExptTeam.vscodeintellicode-completions) is an experimental extension which predicts up to a whole line of code based on your current code context.

![IntelliCode Completions for Python in Visual Studio Code](../images/wlc.gif)

This extension may contain unstable, experimental code. The IntelliCode team is focused on iterating rapidly and new functionality will be added.

### How to use

![IntelliCode Completions interpreting IntelliSense completion list selection in Visual Studio Code](../images/intellisenseSelection.gif)

Completions will appear after your cursor as you type, with a faded color. When the IntelliSense list is open, its selection is used to inform the whole-line autocompletion.

At any time you can accept the suggestion by pressing the tab key (you will need to press it twice if the IntelliSense list is visible). If you don't want to accept the suggestion, you can just keep on typing or press ESC

To enable experimental support for JavaScript and TypeScript, search for `intellicodeCompletions.language` in the Settings menu.

### Installation

The extension can be aquired at the following link: [IntelliCode Completions extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=VisualStudioExptTeam.vscodeintellicode-completions)

The extension is supported by Visual Studio Code November 2021 Release 1.63 or later.

## Provide feedback

If you encounter a problem, you can browse [existing issues](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/intellicode/issues) and upvote them using a 👍 "thumbs up" reaction. If you don't see your particular problem, we'd love to hear from you. Include any **Output** window log entries from Visual Studio IntelliCode, Python, Java, JavaScript, or TypeScript with the bug.

## See also

- [IntelliCode for Visual Studio](intellicode-visual-studio.md)
- [IntelliCode general FAQ](faq.yml)

Commit message:

Added content RE: snippet completion

docs/intellicode-visual-studio-code-completions.md, after:

---
title: VS Code Completions Preview
description: Read an overview of IntelliCode for Visual Studio Code. The IntelliCode extension provides AI-assisted IntelliSense for Python, Java, TypeScript, and JavaScript.
ms.custom: SEO-VS-2020
ms.date: 04/19/2022
ms.prod: visual-studio-family
ms.technology: intellicode
ms.topic: conceptual
author: aayim
ms.author: aayim
manager: andster
---

# IntelliCode Completions Preview for Visual Studio Code

The [IntelliCode Completions extension for Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=VisualStudioExptTeam.vscodeintellicode-completions) is an experimental extension which predicts up to a whole line of code based on your current code context.

![IntelliCode Completions for Python in Visual Studio Code](../images/wlc.gif)

This extension may contain unstable, experimental code. The IntelliCode team is focused on iterating rapidly and new functionality will be added.

## How to use
![IntelliCode Completions interpreting IntelliSense completion list selection in Visual Studio Code](../images/intellisenseSelection.gif)

Completions will appear after your cursor as you type, with a faded color. When the IntelliSense list is open, its selection is used to inform the whole-line autocompletion.

At any time you can accept the suggestion by pressing the tab key (you will need to press it twice if the IntelliSense list is visible). If you don't want to accept the suggestion, you can just keep on typing or press ESC

### Snippet Completion

![Accepting a grey text completion with empty string automatically moves the cursor to the empty string](media/vsc-wlc-snippetcompletion.gif)

If the whole-line autocompletion includes strings for which the model does not have a prediction for:

1. The cursor will automatically move to the first empty string upon accepting the prediction with the TAB key.
2. If further empty strings exist within the prediction, the TAB key will automatically move the cursor to the next empty string.

### Enabling JavaScript/TypeScript Support

To enable experimental support for JavaScript and TypeScript, search for `intellicodeCompletions.language` in the Settings menu.

## Installation

The extension can be aquired at the following link: [IntelliCode Completions extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=VisualStudioExptTeam.vscodeintellicode-completions)

The extension is supported by Visual Studio Code November 2021 Release 1.63 or later.

## Provide feedback

If you encounter a problem, you can browse [existing issues](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/intellicode/issues) and upvote them using a 👍 "thumbs up" reaction. If you don't see your particular problem, we'd love to hear from you. Include any **Output** window log entries from Visual Studio IntelliCode, Python, Java, JavaScript, or TypeScript with the bug.

## See also

- [IntelliCode for Visual Studio](intellicode-visual-studio.md)
- [IntelliCode general FAQ](faq.yml)
